It it it'll be fine. The only spot is if
I tear a peg.
[Music]
Is this a balancing act? It's a
balancing act.
Yeah. Go. Today we're bench pressing.
Interesting day. I'll tell you why it's
interesting. Uh, I squatted very heavy a
couple of days ago and my arms are very
sore usually. Um, there's always
something, but typically I wouldn't
program a heavy session straight after
my heavy bench press. Uh, my heavy
squat, which was 300 kg. But if you
remember my squat, I only did two sets.
I did the 300 and one back down set. And
I strained my um adductor or hamstring.
I can't tell you which one it was, but
it's still a little bit sore. I'm glad I
stopped that session where I stopped it.
Um, but either way, I only did two sets.
So, it's possible that my arms aren't
hugely fatigued and I may be able to go
for something heavy today. Um, I do have
a special guest in today. I've got Ree.
Um, he's in here to do his rehab bench
press sessions, but he's also going to
help me unrackck. So, when I saw him
rock up, I thought, you know what? I may
as well use this opportunity to be open
to a heavy single. All right. So, um,
he's very good at unrackcking. Last
session, I kind of bitched out a little
bit. I said, um, I'll either go for a
heavy single or five reps on 180. And I
end up, so I consider that bitching out.
Even though five reps on 180 is good,
it's technically not
205, right? Um, anyway, so now I need to
get that 205. Now, in the meantime, Reys
is rehabbing. So Reese has torn his
bicep
doing arm wrestling. Stupid. Yeah. Yeah,
arm wrestling, right? And um, which one?
Right or left? Left one. Left arm.
You're right-handed. I am lovely. So,
what have you been doing with your
training in the meantime? Back into it.
I started bench pressing, started doing
the regular training, did some deadlifts
yesterday. Yeah. But we're back up to
120 kilos today. Unfortunately, people
get injured when they lift very very
heavy weights or in this case arm
wrestling. Um, and uh there's a question
like what do we do for imbalances here?
So, there's going to be an imbalance for
sure. His right arm is stronger than his
left because his left has been doing
pretty much nothing. Um, but there's a
lot of research that supports if you
continue strengthening the good arm, it
will have a neurological carryover to
rehabilitating the strength of the
injured arm when he comes back. Caveat
to this, it doesn't increase the muscle
mass of his untrained arm. So, um, yes,
that right arm will get bigger with the
training and that one won't. But, um,
when he does get back to full strength,
it is a much quicker process if you
continue to train the untrained arm. So,
are you going to do any one arm work
today? Yeah, a little bit. Great. So,
your your session is going to be
starting on bench press. What weight?
Uh, I'll start I've done 60 already, 80.
I'll work up to 120. Yeah. How long has
it been since you tore it? The day you
tore it? How long was that? It has been
around 12 weeks. Okay. 12 weeks since I
tore it. 10 weeks post operation. Yeah.
You've been benching for the last 3
weeks. This is really good to know
because I know a lot of people have
injuries and I've actually spoken to a
lot of people with bicep tears and the
amount of times I kind of refer them to
people that I know or um high level
athletes that have gone through this
type of surgery to give them hope. I'll
tell you now, if you've ever had an
injury, anyone at home, you'll know it's
pretty damn depressing, right?
Especially when you're kind of like on a
mission to hit a number, then all of a
sudden, damn, it's surgery time. I tore
a muscle. Um you know, I've been there
and I remember being down in the dumps.
And it's always important to understand
you'll be back, right? Uh now Reese is
an elite level lifter and he's been
doing this for many years. It's not his
first injury. Is it your first surgery?
No way, man. I've had shoulder recos,
broken plates in my hands, uh ankles.
And and you've come back after that and
achieved your best totals since
surgeries. What's your total? What's
your total? 15 kg. 1,50 kg in the 140
kilo class. Uh, what's your best bench
press? 260 kilos in the gym. Okay. So,
260 kilos. So, so right now 120 is not
heavy for for Ree, but at the same time,
it's important to know 12 weeks since um
he tore it off the bone and he's back to
a decent enough level to be kind of like
functioning and and we kind of see the
finish line, right?
Yeah. So, you know, bit of a message to
people that have injured yourself. Keep
your head up and uh you will be back. 12
weeks is what it's taken Ree to get to
being able to, you know, function with
weights. But anyway, that's what we're
going to see today. We'll see his bench
press. Um, we'll see my bench press.
Hopefully, I'll I won't [__] out and
I'll get to 205. Hopefully, he can do I
hope I'm able to. Yeah, you don't need
my help. Yeah, that's right. Well, I'll
do one hand, but I'm good. I can get He
I think he can do with one hand. Dy
usually spots me for this. I've done 220
with one hand before. That's so true.
That's so true. So, I think he's
confident enough to spot me for this,
but either way, I don't want to go for
it if it's not there. So, I will go for
it because it will be there. Let's do a
quick recap on the bench press technique
that I've used to bench press 250 kg.
Sit at the edge of the bench so when you
lay back, you don't bump your head on
the bar. Important cue. Slide back. The
reason why I slide back is so that I can
bring my feet back. So, if I just get to
the position here, my feet come back
here. That's okay. But if I slide back
further, I can bring them back a little
bit further, which increases my tension,
increases my arch. Now, from here on the
balls of the feet and push the heels
down. They're not going to touch the
ground, but there's still that downwards
pressure from start to finish. I'll tell
you what that does. It's called hip
joint extension. Hip joint extension
initiates my arch, which is what I want.
Okay? So, heels down and slide until my
eyes are behind the bar, not in line
with the bar. Okay. Now, from here,
heels down, shoulder blades, I squeeze
them together and down. Big breath for
the unrackck. And I hold my breath from
start to finish. You
ready? And now I exhale. Okay. So what
you saw then
is the the main cues I'm thinking about
heels down hard and shoulder blades back
and down. And then I just press away.
Where do you get your arm to start
unbreing for you? I'll probably start at
about 120 kg, I'd say, only because my
arms are pretty damn tired from the
squat. Um, it doesn't mean that they are
not strong enough to lift the weight. I
just don't want the discomfort. So, you
know, I've I've unracked heavy weights
for myself, but when it comes to a
really really heavy day like this, um, I
don't want to mess up. So, the next
thing is Rez is very good at
unrackcking, except I haven't had him
unrackck for me for a long time. Well,
he hasn't unrackcked for anyone in the
last 3 months since his bicep tear. Uh,
so it's been a while. So, I guess that's
another thing is I definitely don't want
to do my last warm up and then have him
come and unrackck because he needs to
familiarize himself with, you know, my
position as well. So, I reckon um I'll
get him to unrackck on this set. The
best thing you introduced to my I saw
that long black with two teaspoons of
honey. I got a sweet tooth. Uh, for a
lot of people, I'll tell you what
happens when you go to the cafe and you
say, "I want two teaspoons of honey."
They go, "Dido," and they go, "Little
squeeze." And then you drink it and it
doesn't taste like there's much in it.
All right. So, if you ever do the two
teaspoons of honey, do te Well,
actually, it's one heap teaspoon. That's
why I say two because they don't really
put that much in. So, one heaped
teaspoon and make sure you stir it. Uh,
and that is the best
preworkout backed by science.
It's not backed by science. That was a
joke. Not everything you do has to be
backed by science. It tastes very good.
And coffee coffee is very um very good
for a pre-workout. All right, Reys. Yes,
sir. Can I have an arm rack, please?
Thank you. Slide back. Feet back. Heels
down. Okay. I use the powerlifting grip,
which is uh the the widest grip
possible. Index finger on the outer ring
of the powerlifting bar. Okay. Eyes
behind the bar, shoulders back and down.
Big
breath. Nice.
That was uh perfect actually. Thank you.
Thank
you. Yeah. Reese is good on racking.
Good one.
[__] Mike. You're very close to that.
I hit it the first rep. Just braced it.
Yeah, just braised it. Yeah, I'm going
to It's cuz the shirt was down further.
That's right. I got to reset it. Anyway,
so that was um Yeah, 140. I'll go I'm
going to go 165 is what I'll do. 65 85
205. Three, three more sets. Unrackck
was perfect. Uh, unrackck was very
strong, actually. I'm just using my
lats. I'm not using on the So good. So
good. Extra focused. So, this is what I
teach with an unrackck is if you know
what you're doing, it's helpful to take
heaps of weight, but not so much that it
takes you out of position. Um, so Reese
is a great coach and he knows what the
right position is. So, he's actually um
doesn't need his biceps. He's kind of
shrugging it, right? Uh, he's shrugging
the weight just enough. Uh, come come
over here. or you can see it on that
side there. Just enough to clear that
lip. But that's as high as you really
need to take it. You take it higher than
that, you you're going to start pulling
my shoulder blades out of
position. And then it's hard to bring my
shoulder blades back in position cuz I'm
laying on that bench, right? So that's
if you want to be an expert bencher for
your
bro. I I recommend take a lot of the
weight. Yeah. I I like 70% better.
Right. Yeah. So, I never
really unrackcked for me, take heaps of
weight, but I'll tell you what happened
then. I didn't press any of it yet. And
as soon as I took a breath in, he'd
taken all of it. I didn't realize that
that's how how much weight you actually
take. It's like realiz that's l because
it's easy when you're in the right
position. Yeah. Exactly. Right. Um, so
you know, he's dead lifted. What's your
best deadlift? 410. 410. So, this is
only 140 kg. So, it is quite lively. Um,
but that's um the art of unrackcking.
Okay. So, that's something I've realized
now is you want to take as much weight
as possible, but not so much that you
take the lifter out of position. Um, and
that is a very helpful unrackck. You got
to put them in the position. Yeah. Yeah.
Which uh that's what happened there.
That was perfect. Um, now let's talk
about So, you're going to do another
set. I am going to do 120 next. So,
let's talk about um for rehabilitation.
So, this is back to anyone who's come
off any type of um I don't want to talk
so much about surgery because I think
it's case by case with that. Um but
whenever I talk about rehabilitation, I
think that movement is medicine and you
need to get straight back into training
as quickly as possible. Um we will talk
surgery though because Reese is actually
going through it. So, we're going to ask
him his specific uh rehab protocols. So,
how long was your how long after surgery
was your first uh bench press session?
Uh 7 weeks post surgery. And what did
you do? Uh empty bar to start with.
Tested it out. Went up to 40 kilos. Uh
that was just the confirmation that I
was kind of ready to start lifting cuz I
was kind of doubting myself. Obviously
had no hurt at all. It felt so stiff. No
pain. It was just a lot of a lot of scar
tissue built up. A big hard lump under
there. So took a while to get the
movement back. Took a few sets and reps.
40 kilos. How many sets and reps? Three
by 10. Y feeling it out. And then what
did you do? How many days after was your
next session? Uh then I went 2 days
later in the gym and I decided, okay,
every second day for another few weeks,
I'll bench every second day, add 10 kg.
Uh that was a good way for me to get
back up to a decent weight, you know,
relatively quickly without loading it
too much. So, so straight. So, this is
something that I love is high frequency
because it's a light load, right? Um so,
high frequency. That's every second day.
What else were you doing on bench press
day? I was training my back, training my
triceps. Um but always with my bench
press days, always training back. Uh
sometimes shoulders as well, different
angles. Yeah. But mostly it's always
chest and back with a bit of triceps and
biceps as well with the rehab. I wrote a
program for someone yesterday, so I
don't hold take this for granted is
whenever I train and I guess you as
well, we train push and pull on the same
session. A lot of people like to split
it up and they'll do a push on one day
and a pull on one day. Um the reason why
I like to do that is a lot of the times
you can really superset those exercises
and get twice the amount of work in the
same amount of time. So you got two
options. do a heavy set and wait, you
know, however many minutes is your rest.
8 minutes is for usually, but a lot of
people aren't resting that long. So,
let's just call it 5 minutes. So, you
can do press rest 5 minutes or you can
go press, rest, 2 and 1/2 minutes, row
or pull down, rest two and a half
minutes. So, push, pull, push, pull, and
get twice the amount of work on the same
day. Um, so, so typically that's the
difference between a strength athlete
and a hypertrophy athlete. We're
thinking about movement patterns. So a
lot of the times, not always, but a lot
of the times we'll do our bench press
days on a pushpull day. So he's doing
push pull on the same day. Now bicep is
a pulling muscle. So doing the bench
press, you think it's not really part of
the bench press, but it's part of the
equation.
The shoulder as well. It stabilizes the
shoulder. So you feel a bit of
instability in your shoulder. That's the
first thing I felt was just there was
nothing in here and I felt very loose.
So just working on getting all that
feeling nice and tight again. It's
coming back. It's coming back. So, it
was tight for the bench press. How did
it feel for the rows or the or the pull
downs? Um, again, I just it was that
uncomfortable feeling because obviously
it's no confidence in in what's
happening. So, it's like I was gentle
towards the end, but um slowly increase
the range of motion till I got to a full
stretch. Yeah. Uh and increasing the
load slowly, nice and simple. Same as
the bench press, just every day a little
bit more. Yeah. So, push pull every
second day because it's so light. So
light, especially on the left side. And
then you reduce that a little bit as it
gets stronger. So as I for example got
my bench press back over 100 kg, I've
kind of moved that back to bench every 3
days, maybe every four days depending
how I'm feeling. Um so two times a week
essentially which is back to normal. But
I'm still doing one other day which is
more direct shoulder work for the left
side. Um but once this is strong enough
I'll probably drop that day out and then
just two main bench days back to two
upper body days per week. Yes. Okay. So,
that's some tips for you if you're ever
uh rehabilitating an injury. Uh here's
my advice to you. Don't train through
pain. So, we asked Reese and he said it
was tight. Um but I guess there's a bit
of an indicator where you go you can
press as much as you can that's no pain,
but then as soon as you feel a little
bit of extra pain, that's when it's a
little bit too heavy, right? So, that's
when you can drop back a little bit. So,
don't train to pain. Train just below
that. Um tight is okay. That's not
really pain, right? Um, and you know,
high frequency, the body likes high
frequency with a very light weight, but
then as it starts getting heavier,
that's when we need to. So, our sweet
spot for when you're benching um 260.
How many sessions a week were you doing?
Well, twice a week benching. Yeah. And I
was doing two lower body days. Yeah. Um,
but to be honest, my lower body days
were very light at the time. I had a
back injury, so that's why my bench
press progressed so well. But uh usually
it's the one deadlift day, the one squat
day, and the two pressing days. Okay. So
that's um same as what my split is is
two upper, two lower, so four a week.
And it's the same dilemma with a lot of
highle power lifters, heavy lower body,
especially squats, interferes with um
your the pain that you feel when you're
doing a heavy bench press. Um so that's
quite often um what I tell people, if
you've had one great lift in the week,
it's a good week. It's a great week,
right? So, it's very hard. So, this is
what I'm trying to do. I had a a 300
kilo squat a couple of days ago and I'm
trying to move forward with my bench
press. Yeah. Anyhow, I'm playing with
fire. Yeah, bro. We'll see. Uh I already
did 140, didn't I? And it's your turn.
The bicep crosses the shoulder joint,
right? So, you think of it as just like,
you know, elbow flexor, but it's also a
should. So, this is another action it
has is that at the shoulder. So,
anything that crosses the shoulder or
any joint stabil it stabilized that
joint. So therefore, if you injure that
muscle that stabilizes the joint, you're
going to lose stability. So his shoulder
feels unstable, no coincidence. So check
out his technique because he's not going
heavy. He's not doing the full
competition style arch. He's, you know,
bit flatfooted and um he he doesn't
really need to to maximize his levers.
Cool. Post comp post uh rehab PB. The
one funny thing it's like it's an odd
feeling. Yeah. To feel like one side is
doing nothing and one side is working
hard. Which side was working hard? The
left side. Okay. Yeah. All right. Cuz
your right arm is still very strong.
Still very strong. But your left arm
hasn't pressed that much weight in 12
weeks. But it's not getting harder as
I'm getting stronger, if that makes
sense. It's just I'm getting stronger
each week. Yeah. And it feels it feels
the same every week pretty much. But
you're just going heavier. Y. Good one.
See how I wrap my wrist? My wrist straps
are always on. Did you see that little
hack? They're always on. But watch what
I do at the end of this set. I take them
off, but leave them on. You'll see.
That's awesome, bro. Pretty good. Hey,
dude. That's crazy. That's wild.
That's cool.
Lovely.
Easy. Felt good. Thank you, bro. Thank
you, bro. Yeah. So, watch this. Right.
So, this is to be honest with you, when
I watch people getting ready for a lift,
they have to go from wrist wraps on the
floor to do it again. It takes a lot of
time. So, what I do is I just loosen it
and that's loose and they stay there,
right? See that? See that? that for a
hack. Now, when I'm ready to go, I just
grab the
elastic. Put it on like a Formula 1 uh
pit
stop. In and out, ready to go. And the
belt stays on and then, you know what I
mean? Ready to go. Impressive, eh? I'm
surprised you didn't go to bed wearing
that. I go I'm I'm pretty quick at
everything, Reese. Me, too, bro. Ask my
wife.
You're not quick. She's just slow, man.
You You need to hurry up. Yeah, that's
rude. Hey, she needs to hurry up. Do
better for my confidence. All right, set
two for Ree. His first set, cuz it was,
you know, it's light for him, but it's
the first time his arm has felt 120 kg.
He did five reps. Uh, so now he's
comfortable with that and he's going to
do a little bit more reps. What do you
say? Eight reps. Yeah, I'll do eight.
Maybe if it's easier, we'll get going.
Great.
Remember last time I came here it was I
was quite uneven. Is that a bit better
now? It's a lot better. I can still see
asymmetries but everyone's like even
though I haven't didn't have an injury
I'm asymmetrical as well. So true.
Come on. Come on. The only only pain I
get is in my actual shoulder. Um, which
is an old issue and it comes from the
lack of stability, but it's getting
better. So, the stronger my back's
getting actually, yeah, the less the
shoulder's hurting as well. I I still
think that's a pretty fast recovery. It
is to be honest with you. Like 12 weeks
to be able to do that. 10 weeks post
operation, you know, like this is where
I'm reluctant to say watch what where
Reese is because after 12 weeks, you
should be able to bench press 120 for
eight. He's stronger. Like he's This is
my wife. Yeah. He he came into this with
a very strong I think you were probably
at 250 recently before this. Yeah. So,
he wasn't at his peak beat, but like not
far off it. So he was at a very strong
level. So 250 kg. So for him to come
back is a lot quicker than most people.
Um but at the same time as he said this
is his life. He's a coach and I
understand I understand the game. So I
can I can gauge it myself. Yeah. Cuz
I've been there before many times.
Confidence is a big thing. You know, the
fact that he's been there before um and
he understands what it feels like. It's
a big thing. And that's also why I'm
raising attention on my page because I
know like people injure themselves all
the time and that's what we're trying to
do. I don't want you to think that, you
know, injury is what you have to expect
when you want to be a powerlifter. Uh
sometimes it happens. A lot of the times
it doesn't. Hopefully it doesn't happen.
Um but if it does, especially big ones,
hey, especially big ones. They don't
happen often. That's Yeah. Big ones
don't happen often. No. But when you get
as strong as you play crazy games, win
crazy prizes. It is what it is. Exactly.
Signed up for it in a way. Exactly.
Exactly. All right. Next up, 185.
You have one more set up. Yeah. This is
my last warmup set. Um Yeah. 185 and
then 205.
Good one. Good one.
Three cameras just in case. That's all
good. So, um, felt good. It felt good.
Um, I can feel that it's getting heavier
and heavier. Uh, and that's what happens
when you get to top sets that are, you
know, kind of PB is the warm-up set
before should feel heavy. You know, a
lot of the times you think, "Oh, it
should be easy cuz it's warm up." No.
So, we're we're starting to We're
getting pretty close. Um
205. I think it's going down. We're
going to attempt it. Good. I don't need
to be psyched up as much for the bench
press. Um, you know, if I was in
competition, I'd be a little bit more
focused, but I'm sure everyone will
agree that it is a lot easier to bench
press than it is to squat, especially
your max. Amen. Yeah. So, you know, I
still feel
like I don't want to like I want to miss
I want I don't want to miss the lift. It
means a lot to me to get it, but at the
same time, yeah, you can see the level
of focus that I need for a very heavy
squat. Like I'm nervous now. I'm not
nervous. Like it's not that I have more
confidence. It's not that I have more
confidence actually. Like I feel the
same. Like I could miss it. I could get
it. Um but it's just less weight. It's
just you don't have to work as hard.
There's no other way of saying it. It's
simple way. Like when you do a squat,
when you're doing a max squat,
unrackcking it, it just is hard. Yeah.
And then the blood pressure spike from
the [__] man. Unpleasant e unpleasant
feeling. It's not It's not pleasant.
Yeah. So, this is something that I talk
about as well. When you're lifting heavy
weights, um you can't just do rep work
and then go, "Okay, I've done five reps
on this, so all of a sudden I can do one
rep on on that." You have to practice
those singles because strength is a
skill and you got to teach your body
what it feels like to handle those heavy
singles. So, that's the whole idea with
with peaking. But the next thing as
well, like difference between a a
beginner and more advanced is I say you
got to develop pain tolerance. So, not
pain like as in you got to learn how to
cop injuries. No, like the pain of hard
work, like it it hurts. It does, bro.
You got you got to be okay with it as
well, right? Even even when you're
getting the lifts, like even when you
succeed with everything, you never miss
a rep. You got to take yourself to a
place where it's like, okay, this is not
going to feel incredible. It feels great
once you've achieved it. Um, and that's
that's my favorite part, but actually
doing it, it it hurts and rip rip it off
you to be honest with you, the face
savers are there. Um, do you want me to
No, it'll be fine. No, no, no. It It'll
be fine. It'll be sweet. The only spot
is if I tear a peg. Yeah. That's the
only hard part because if I don't tear a
peg, like this is a bit [__]
dramatic, right? But I'm just talking
about the reality of this is if I'm just
not miss like not able to get it. You
can you only need a spot like a little
bit 20 kilos. Yeah, exactly. You know
what I mean? So, he'll be able to do
that with one arm. But if I tear a pec,
then he has to lift the whole thing
because I won't be able to do it. So,
I'll just drop. And if that's the case,
I've got the face savers here. So, all
we'll do is just drop it here. I'll just
drop it here. And then the role of the
spotters is to just [__] unrackck
this. Maybe. Maybe. But no, that's not
going to happen. Um, better [__] not
happen. No. Okay.
Come on. Let's get it. Good
job. Come
on. You're [__]
fight. Let's go.
Yeah,
dude. That was that was quite
comfortable.
That was clean. Thank you. Thank you.
No, fist me and I catch you. It's called
a cabbage. It's called a cabbage.
Anyway. Anyway.
Definitely bad. I don't have to be upset
now, mate. So, anyway, like this is kind
of like a bittersweet feeling because my
best bench press is 250 and I'm sitting
here celebrating 45 kilos less than
that. But the reality is I haven't bench
pressed 205 kg uh in over 6 months, I
would say. Um, hang on a second. Hang on
a second. Way more than 6 months uh
since I've been So, I'm 43. So, since
I've been 40, that's when I did the big
weight drop. Um, and yeah, bro. So, this
has actually been 3
years. Like, I've done 200 kg a few
times. And I'll tell you now, my arms
aren't feeling amazing cuz I did do the
heavy squats, but it was fine. How would
that move?
Yeah, it was
comfortable. Okay, now let's go reality.
What do I think I had to be honest with
you? Not that much more. Um, but I do
see 210 coming soon. It wasn't an RP10.
It was not an RP 10. Yeah. So, I think
um I can see where 210 will fall in the
next two weeks or so. Yeah. Next week's
heavy triple. Next week I won't do heavy
single. Yeah, I'll do I'll do rep work.
Um maybe that rep work that you asked
for a while ago, which was 190 triples.
Um so so maybe I could do something like
that, that's realistic uh for my heavy
session. Um, but then the week after,
yeah, I reckon we'll hit a, uh, send
full send 210. All right, so next up,
look, I'm not going to do more bench
press work. Uh, that was a max. Now, I'm
going to do some dumbbell stuff with
Ree. Um, so this is where kind of, you
know, even though we're not doing the
same weights together, here's some
things that we can do together, right?
Um, which is the dumbbell press. You
know, he'll do it on one arm and I'll do
it on two. Uh, that's totally fine. But
I'll probably do What angle do you want
to do pressing on? You're doing flat. I
like a low angle. Yeah, I'm I'm happy
I'm happy to do a low angle and only
because I'm only doing one set here. So,
one set on the flat horizontal push. I
don't like to do when I PB too much work
afterwards on the same exercise. It's
like take that take that win and and
run. So, yeah. So, let's do some flat
presses. Of course, I'll do two arms and
uh Reese will do one arm. Yeah, I'll do
a little bit on the side, but that'll be
off camera cuz it's boring as hell.
Right. So, as in as in the the injured
side, right? So, you'll do some some one
arm with a strong arm. And uh you know,
interestingly, he last time we did that,
he did more reps than me. So, we did 70
kgs. Um I think I did five or something
and he did seven reps. So, um yeah,
still quite still quite strong with that
one arm because obviously he didn't stop
training, right? Uh, and that's a big
thing that a lot of people do when
they're injured is they get so, you
know, depressed and down about life that
they just go, if I can't train properly,
I'm not going to train at all. Uh, not
the best way of doing it. You still got
to train. Do the things that you can do.
And then it does actually help with the
recovery. So, let's do some dumbbell
work.
Hold on.
Is this a balancing act? It's a
balancing act. Yeah.
[Music]
Hey, come and check this out. This is
how you do a dumbbell press, right? When
you do the um uh when you put on your
lap, I put this really high up on my
lap. I see a lot of people on a flat
press, they kind of pass it to
themselves. It's very inefficient for
for a flat bench. You have it all the
way
up and you just hand it to yourself very
easily. Now, this is just a feel set.
Obviously, I'm warm.
Um, so that one was just familiarize
myself. I'll probably do one more a
little bit heavier. I'll go 55. Uh, and
then based on that,
um, I'll do a heavier set.
All right. Norally don't do um flats.
No, normally I don't do flat. You know,
this is the whole exercise redundancy
thing because you've done enough flat
benching with the
barbell, but today was only one set of
one. So, that's not enough stimulation
really uh on that horizontal push plane.
So, when I go to 205, of course, we've
got the top set, back down set, and all
of that stuff. Um but yeah, done with
bench. I take my my win and I run. And
now I'm going to be doing um my flat
horizontal pressing with dumbbells. It's
just nicer on my shoulders and arms. Um,
so exercise redundancy. I say don't do
the same joint angles with different
machines. So, we've just done flat press
with a barbell. Why do the same thing
with dumbbells? Um, but the fact is I
only did one set of one over there. So,
I still want to do some more volume on
my horizontal push plane. Um, and a flat
dumbbell press is my strongest angle
really. So, I want to get um some heavy
work on dumbbells. It's been a while.
I'm going to go for 70 kilogram dumbbell
press. Last time I did it, I got five
reps. So, if I beat five, I'll be happy.
Uh yeah. Let's see how we go.
Yes.
Moving.
Six. Seven.
Nice. That was comfortable.
Interesting.
Well, I did more work. So, this time
I'll just do one set of one. So, I'm
feeling very under stimulated.
I'll do one more set. Good one. Yeah.
And then what about the left side? And
then do one set of 20 reps with aim for
like So, we do the at the same
time sets. So I think on the left side I
just go one step heavier again the left
side but the right side what I mean is
you're going to hold the counterbalance
weight or you just 50 is easy one rep
one sorry one one hand okay so this is
uh this is the skill right so one hand
um it's a balancing act right um so
although it's like oh yeah just one side
no no he's doing a pretty heavy weight
for him 50 is not that heavy but still
he has to balance his body so that's
where it's super awkward but he's going
to Do one set of high reps with a 50
kilo dumbbell on his strong arm.
Come
on. You got it,
bud. Yes. Come on. Come on. 18. Let's
go. Two more. Two more. Come
on. Up. 19. Last one. Last one. Last
one.
Up. That's the last red syndrome. That's
the last set. I failed on 19 19. I was
like, by the way, what is happening here
now? Yeah, we're here now. That was
pretty good. Um, 19 reps. You know, some
people would say 19.9 or 19 whatever.
Zero for in lifting weights. We round
down. We round down to the the even
number would hit it, did I? So, zero.
So, he got zero reps there. Um, so
that's a a discussion that we've had
many times. It's kind of like the
syndrome where you set yourself a a
target and all of a sudden the last rep
is always hard or you fail or whatever
it is. But I bet you had we said
something like 22, not in this instance,
you probably would have failed at 19.
That was it. Uh but a lot of the times
we find the psychology of setting a rep
target, you always like fall short just
by one rep or the last rep is a grind or
whatever it is. Uh, something I like to
teach people to do is if I'm like, not
for sets of 20, that was silly. But, um,
if I'm coaching you and you're doing
multiple sets of like threes or fours or
fives, a lot of the times I like to
stand behind and scream people and say
kind of like like focus on that last rep
like it's a first. Like you don't have
to struggle on the last rep. It can be
really fast and you can put the weight
down. Like when it comes to strength
training and and building muscle,
building muscle, you want to take the
movement to fail. And that's what you're
looking for is the bar speed slowing
down. And that tells us that we're
reaching that point where we're that's
the muscle building zone, right? So
that's called mechanical tension, which
is what we're after to build muscle. But
when it comes to building strength, that
slow down velocity of the bar speed can
interfere with our strength gains. So
when it comes to strength training, you
want to leave reps in reserve. When it
comes to hypertrophy, that's where you
really want to be taking it closer to
failure. So this isn't really a
strength. Of course, it makes him
stronger in some way, but that's not
really a strength building rep range. So
sets of 20 is not what you do for
strength. That's what you do for shits
and giggles. Bit of fun. Bit of fun. Um,
and now you're going to do the other
side. Yes. I'll just go less reps
though. Yeah. I did 35 just before for a
set of eight. Yes. So I might try 37 for
one set of eight. One arm. One arm.
Okay. Just for the extra stimulus on the
left side. Yeah. I'm playing catch up.
So not ready yet.
So for these
dumbbells, for a high rep set, like
sorry, not a high rep set, for a heavy
set of dumbbells, I need like 8 to 10
minutes rest if I want to do the same
quality uh in two consecutive sets or um
you know, multiple sets of so a lot of
times I'll recommend for your top work,
you know, for your big heavy bench
presses or compound lifts, long rest.
But then when you come to your secondary
exercises, uh you can have, you know,
reduced rest. And this is the
discussions that I have with a lot of
people that I work with. But for me, I
can't like for me to do another set like
that, I'm going to take eight minutes.
Uh because I'll need eight minutes
because if I try and do less than eight
minutes, I probably won't get eight
reps. So I want eight reps. You thought
I wasn't going to do the last set. I
always do what I say I'm going to do. I
promise
you. Oh, it's that adductor. It's that
adductor. Well, no, it should be okay.
Let's
go.
Okay. Easy. Let's go.
Yeah, hardest part of that was picking
up off the ground. I'll tell you what
would have even been harder if I had to
reckrack
that. Uh anyway, 2x8. I'm going to go
and do some
uh some fluffy shoulder stuff. You want
to see? I'll do some face
pulls. Yeah. Why don't you watch me do
some face pulls? That's what you can do.
Check this out. This is one of my
favorite shoulder health upper back
exercises. So, I say shoulder health.
Um, and a lot of the times I do things
like face pulls, which is sitting on the
floor with the rope and and pulling the
weight to the top of my head. So, what a
face pull does is you're training your
midback muscles and then to the top of
your head, you externally rotate. So,
we're strengthening the external
rotators of the shoulder. Now, this
isn't really targeting that, um, but
it's an alternative that allows me to
shift a much heavier weight for upper
back. So, what I'm doing is instead of
doing the the ropes and all that fancy
stuff, I use a wide grip on a seated row
and I'm going to pull that high to my
chest. Now, what you got to understand
about upper back development, so the
more I flare my elbows, the less lats I
use, the less lats I use, the more
midback muscles I use. So when it comes
to shoulder health, having very very
strong midback muscles as well as like
rear delts. So this is great for rear
delts and great for your rhomboids and
your middle trapezius. So a lot of the
times when people have shitty shoulders,
they're weak in those areas. So check
this out. So this is um hard for me to
get in
because Okay, so look at my elbows. is
I'm lifting my elbows high to take
my lats out of the equation to put all
of the focus on my same muscles really
as my face pulls which is my midback
muscles except because I'm in this
machine and I'm locking myself in I'm
able to load it with a much heavier
weight. So this
is one of my flavors of the week or
month. It's my flavor of the month. It's
a wide grip seated
row to the upper chest.
What's that?
Yeah, it's not one of those exercises
where you do low reps. Um, so I didn't
even count because I was obviously
talking, but uh, appropriate rep range
for an exercise like that would probably
be, you know, 15 rep range, 15 to 20 rep
range. So I don't know how many reps I
did, but I'm going to do two more sets
of that. That was pretty easy. I can go
a little bit heavier. Not too much
heavier. Uh, and that's a good exercise.
But anyway, um, that was it for today's
session. Uh, Reese, thank you for the
session, man. I appreciate it, bro. Uh,
that was a PB for me. Well, kind of not
really, but still. Three years it's been
since I've done two 205. Great unrackck.
Great coach actually. And a PB for me as
well. PB for him. 120 kg. That's a big
bench, Chris. So good. I'm almost
halfway there. Where do we find you?
You've got a YouTube channel, don't you?
I do. Colt Strength. Colt Strength. Colt
Strength. Is that someone's mom's
favorite channel? It's everyone's mom's
favorite channel. Especially yours,
unfortunately. Go give him a follow.
Thanks for the session and we'll see you
guys next time. See you.
Good one.
Oh, you're going to make sure I do
another set, huh? This guy.
Did you see the size of my rear delts?
Thanks for noticing.